gh-91491: What's New in 3.11 section for typing PEPs (#91721)
python/cpython: Doc/whatsnew/3.11.rst

New typing features:

* :pep:`646`: Variadic generics.

> * :pep:`655`: Marking individual TypedDict items as required or potentially-missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :pep:`655`: Marking individual TypedDict items as required or potentially missing.
```

Pet peeve: unnecessary hyphen https://prowritingaid.com/grammar/1000138/How-to-use-hyphen-after-adverbs

Reviewer: Oh whoops that's the verbatim title of @davidfstr's accepted PEP, so I guess it's too late for me to pick that fight 😆 as you were

Irit Katriel in :issue:`45607`.)

.. _new-feat-related-type-hints-311:

New Features Related to Type Hints
==================================

This section covers major changes affecting :pep:`484` type hints and
the :mod:`typing` module.

PEP 646: Variadic generics
--------------------------

:pep:`484` introduced ``TypeVar``, enabling creation of generics parameterised

> with a single type. The new :data:`TypeVarTuple` enables parameterisation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a single type. PEP 646 introduces :data:`TypeVarTuple`, enabling parameterisation
```

> with an *arbitrary* number of types - that is, a *variadic* type variable,

Reviewer: Quite a long sentence 

```suggestion
with an *arbitrary* number of types. In other words, a ``TypeVarTuple`` is a *variadic* type variable,
```

enabling *variadic* generics. This enables a wide variety of use cases.
In particular, it allows the type of array-like structures
in numerical computing libraries such as NumPy and TensorFlow to be

> parameterised with the array *shape*, enabling static type checkers

Reviewer: This sentence is also a bit long 

```suggestion
parameterised with the array *shape*. Static type checkers will now be able
```

to catch shape-related bugs in code that uses these libraries.

See :pep:`646` for more details.

(Contributed by Matthew Rahtz in :issue:`43224`, with contributions by
Serhiy Storchaka and Jelle Zijlstra. PEP written by Mark Mendoza, Matthew
Rahtz, Pradeep Kumar, and Vincent Siles.)

> PEP 655: Marking individual ``TypedDict`` items as required or non-required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PEP 655: Marking individual ``TypedDict`` items as required or not-required
```
Nit: Align wording of "not-required" with "NotRequired".

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

:data:`typing.Required` and :data:`typing.NotRequired` provide a
straightforward way to mark whether individual items in a

> :data:`TypedDict` must be present. Previously, this was only possible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:data:`TypedDict` must be present. Previously this was only possible
```

Nit: Reduce commas (and pauses).

using inheritance.

> As before, fields are required by default, unless the ``total=False``
> parameter is set.
> For example, the following specifies a dictionary with one required and
> one non-required key::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fields are still required by default unless the ``total=False``
parameter is set.
For example the following specifies a dictionary with one required and
one non-required key::
```
Nit: Reduce commas (and pauses).

Author: Thanks, I'd prefer to keep a few more commas though.

   class Movie(TypedDict):
      title: str
      year: NotRequired[int]

   m1: Movie = {"title": "Black Panther", "year": 2018}  # ok
   m2: Movie = {"title": "Star Wars"}  # ok (year is not required)
   m3: Movie = {"year": 2022}  # error (missing required field title)

The following definition is equivalent::

   class Movie(TypedDict, total=False):
      title: Required[str]
      year: int

See :pep:`655` for more details.

(Contributed by David Foster and Jelle Zijlstra in :issue:`47087`. PEP
written by David Foster.)

PEP 673: ``Self`` type
----------------------

The new :data:`typing.Self` annotation provides a simple and intuitive

> way to annotate methods that returnan instance of their class. This

Reviewer 3: IDK if it's worth rephrasing this to mention that it can be used in the parameter list somehow
(There's also a missing space after return)

Author: Adding a sentence for that.

> behaves the same as the :data:`typing.TypeVar`-based approach specified

Reviewer 4: Out of curiosity, does this render properly? Usually there needs to be an escaped space after a role.

If it does render properly, please ignore this comment.
```suggestion
behaves the same as the :data:`typing.TypeVar`\ -based approach specified
```

Author: <img width="773" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-20 at 7 14 47 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/906600/164358047-b1c56678-cad9-44c6-9233-5d4bab379224.png">

Works fine

in :pep:`484` but is more concise and easier to follow.

Common use cases include alternative constructors provided as classmethods
and :meth:`~object.__enter__` methods that return ``self``::

   class MyLock:
       def __enter__(self) -> Self:
           self.lock()
           return self

       ...

   class MyInt:
       @classmethod
       def fromhex(cls, s: str) -> Self:
           return cls(int(s, 16))

       ...

See :pep:`673` for more details.

(Contributed by James Hilton-Balfe in :issue:`46534`. PEP written by
Pradeep Kumar and James Hilton-Balfe.)

PEP 675: Arbitrary literal string type
--------------------------------------

The new :data:`typing.LiteralString` annotation may be used to indicate
that a function parameter can be of any literal string type. This allows
a function to accept arbitrary literal string types, as well as strings

> created from other literal strings. This allows static type checkers to

Reviewer: Two sentences starting with "This allows" in a row.

```suggestion
created from other literal strings. Type checkers  can then
```

enforce that sensitive functions, such as those that execute SQL
statements or shell commands, are called only with static arguments,

> which provides some protection against injection attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
providing some protection against injection attacks.
```

Author: Also going to drop "some"

For example, a SQL query function could be annotated as follows::

   def run_query(sql: LiteralString) -> ...
       ...

   def caller(
       arbitrary_string: str,
       query_string: LiteralString,
       table_name: LiteralString,
   ) -> None:

>        run_query("SELECT * FROM students")  # ok
>        run_query(query_string)  # ok
>        run_query("SELECT * FROM " + table_name)  # ok
>        run_query(arbitrary_string)  # type checker error
>        run_query(  # type checker error
>            f"SELECT * FROM students WHERE name = {arbitrary_string}"

Reviewer 4: The comments are somewhat hard to read. Maybe align them or make them preceding their lines?
```suggestion
       run_query("SELECT * FROM students")       # ok
       run_query(query_string)                   # ok
       run_query("SELECT * FROM " + table_name)  # ok
       run_query(arbitrary_string)               # type checker error
       run_query(                                # type checker error
           f"SELECT * FROM students WHERE name = {arbitrary_string}"
```

Reviewer: +1

Author: Done

Irit Katriel in :issue:`45607`.)

.. _new-feat-related-type-hints-311:

New Features Related to Type Hints
==================================

This section covers major changes affecting :pep:`484` type hints and
the :mod:`typing` module.

PEP 646: Variadic generics
--------------------------

:pep:`484` introduced :data:`~typing.TypeVar`, enabling creation
of generics parameterised with a single type. :pep:`646` introduces
:data:`~typing.TypeVarTuple`, enabling parameterisation
with an *arbitrary* number of types. In other words,
a :data:`~typing.TypeVarTuple` is a *variadic* type variable,
enabling *variadic* generics. This enables a wide variety of use cases.
In particular, it allows the type of array-like structures
in numerical computing libraries such as NumPy and TensorFlow to be
parameterised with the array *shape*. Static type checkers will now
be able to catch shape-related bugs in code that uses these libraries.

See :pep:`646` for more details.

(Contributed by Matthew Rahtz in :issue:`43224`, with contributions by
Serhiy Storchaka and Jelle Zijlstra. PEP written by Mark Mendoza, Matthew

> Rahtz, Pradeep Kumar, and Vincent Siles.)

Reviewer 5: nit

```suggestion
Rahtz, Pradeep Kumar Srinivasan, and Vincent Siles.)
```

parameter is set.
For example, the following specifies a dictionary with one required and
one not-required key::

   class Movie(TypedDict):
      title: str
      year: NotRequired[int]

   m1: Movie = {"title": "Black Panther", "year": 2018}  # ok
   m2: Movie = {"title": "Star Wars"}  # ok (year is not required)
   m3: Movie = {"year": 2022}  # error (missing required field title)

The following definition is equivalent::

   class Movie(TypedDict, total=False):
      title: Required[str]
      year: int

See :pep:`655` for more details.

(Contributed by David Foster and Jelle Zijlstra in :issue:`47087`. PEP
written by David Foster.)

PEP 673: ``Self`` type
----------------------

The new :data:`~typing.Self` annotation provides a simple and intuitive
way to annotate methods that return an instance of their class. This
behaves the same as the :data:`~typing.TypeVar`-based approach specified
in :pep:`484` but is more concise and easier to follow.

Common use cases include alternative constructors provided as classmethods
and :meth:`~object.__enter__` methods that return ``self``::

   class MyLock:
       def __enter__(self) -> Self:
           self.lock()
           return self

> 

Reviewer 5: One important use case is that calling this method on a subclass object will return the subclass type, not this class type. e.g.,

```
class ChildLock(MyLock): ...

ChildLock().__enter__()  # type is `ChildLock`, not `MyLock`.
```

Author: Do you think that should be mentioned here? It's meant to be a brief summary after all.

       ...

   class MyInt:
       @classmethod
       def fromhex(cls, s: str) -> Self:
           return cls(int(s, 16))

       ...

:data:`~typing.Self` can also be used to annotate method parameters
or attributes of the same type as their enclosing class.

See :pep:`673` for more details.

(Contributed by James Hilton-Balfe in :issue:`46534`. PEP written by

> Pradeep Kumar and James Hilton-Balfe.)

Reviewer 5: nit
```suggestion
Pradeep Kumar Srinivasan and James Hilton-Balfe.)
```

The new :data:`~typing.LiteralString` annotation may be used to indicate
that a function parameter can be of any literal string type. This allows
a function to accept arbitrary literal string types, as well as strings
created from other literal strings. Type checkers can then
enforce that sensitive functions, such as those that execute SQL
statements or shell commands, are called only with static arguments,
providing protection against injection attacks.

For example, a SQL query function could be annotated as follows::

   def run_query(sql: LiteralString) -> ...
       ...

   def caller(
       arbitrary_string: str,
       query_string: LiteralString,
       table_name: LiteralString,
   ) -> None:
       run_query("SELECT * FROM students")       # ok
       run_query(query_string)                   # ok
       run_query("SELECT * FROM " + table_name)  # ok
       run_query(arbitrary_string)               # type checker error
       run_query(                                # type checker error
           f"SELECT * FROM students WHERE name = {arbitrary_string}"
       )

See :pep:`675` for more details.

(Contributed by Jelle Zijlstra in :issue:`47088`. PEP written by Pradeep

> Kumar and Graham Bleaney.)

Reviewer 5: nit:
```suggestion
Kumar Srinivasan and Graham Bleaney.)
```
